Our client is primarily interested in testing the ability of an enzyme t’s catalytic potential over some control chemical. They have designed an assay, a procedure in which one would follow to quantitatively measure some aspect of the chemical reaction. Since they are interested inenzyme activity they are interested in measuring the amount of proton released during the reaction and this can be done by measuring theph of the solution. This project is being done to study carbon mitigation, the romval of carbon from a chemical, or gas. 
The process is involves preparing 96 experimental units in the form of different chemical buffer combinations on a 96 well plate. Following the setup for the experiment they run the plate through a machine that measures the change in color of the chemical after CO2 water is added to it. They measure color change with a schpectrophotmerter and this serves as a proxy for the pH of the chemical. Right now there are a number of factors that could influence the results including uncontrollable factors such as daily air pressure. There is  Since this is a lab operated by humans there is also a chance for measurement error, which is something that will need to be accounted for when analyzing the data. Additionally, the experiment is being carried out by multiple operators so we may need to include an effect for each operators effect (random effect). 
The assay, as ofnow, just focuses on the chemical enzyme carbonic anhydrase, but it is the goal of the researcher to use this assay in ord for other chemical enzymes as well so you can see//compare multiple enzymes to the control enzyme. Right now the measurements being recorded include  Time until .2 (not sure) which has to be manually calculated using visual basic code and removing the time it takes for the machine to initialize for a given sample. The machine is only able to move in a snake-like pattern during the experiment and the client would like to know if there are any differences between one side of the plate and the other, as well as any variability between the controls being larger than that of the enzyme. Another interest that the investigators have is to setup a data processing automation so that less time is pspent preparing data for analysis. This would consist of reading data from excel files, calculating the stopping time, calculating all other factors/variables of interest and then.
